---
layout: post
title: bob dylan
Date: 2010-10-26 06:11
tags: [quote, misc]
---
 

Somehow (twitter maybe ?) I've found the transcript of [an interview to Bob Dylan](http://www.interferenza.com/bcs/interw/66-jan.htm) which appeared on Playboy in 1966.

[So](http://www.nytimes.com/2009/10/25/books/review/Cowles-t.html)[^nota], I don't
know if Bob Dylan was totally out of his mind or if he was just playing crazy,
but this 1966 interview is brilliant stuff.

For example, the interviewer asks if he's selling out:

_What can I say? I'd like to see one of these so-called fans. I'd like to have him blindfolded and brought to me. It's like going out to the desert and screaming and then having little kids throw their sandbox at you. I'm only 24._

Or what he answers to the question "what made you decide to go the rock'n'roll
route":

_Carelessness. I lost my one true love. I started drinking. The first thing I know, I'm in a card game. Then I'm in a crap game. I wake up in a pool hall..._

And he goes on and on along this line, really wonderful, crazy stuff; you better read the whole thing for yourself. You only need to be a little misaligned to enjoy it.

Final quote:

_The thing that most people don't realize is that it's warmer to have long hair. Everybody wants to be warm. People with short hair freeze easily. Then they try to hide their coldness, and they get jealous of everybody that's warm. Then they become either barbers or Congressmen. A lot of prison wardens have short hair._

(it strikes a chord for me, as I used to have long hair before it all started
to fall).

[^nota]: It's two years later now, it's 2012, and I have absolutely no idea why I linked this word ("So"), to the review of a Jonathan Lethem's book. No idea at all. I must have gone nuts following the example set by Bob Dylan while I was writing these notes. But I don't want to delete this link, because I know there must have been a meaning that I wanted to give, and I don't want to lose the hope that someday I will remember why I linked Bob Dylan with Jonathan Lethem.
