Title: two movies
Date: 2016-02-18 22:27:57
Slug: two-movies
Tags:
Lang: en
Status: draft

The first movie is Steven Spielberg's Bridge of Spies. Great movie, and Tom Hanks -- I don't like him but I have to admit he's really really good. Photography is good too but I'll talk photography when I move to the second movie. Because what I want to say about this movie is maybe a little thing that bothered me a lot. The little thing is this: that in the whole film Tom Hanks does a lot of hard work for people who don't even know, he puts himself and his family in danger, gets nasty eyes when he goes to work on the bus, but still does the work (undercover, with no promises of getting recognition, no money either). It seems like certain people don't need to be publicly recognised for what they do, or else they can be see as strong enough in their beliefs that they don't want it either. And the movie could have ended like this, and would have resulted in a massive but maybe obscure way to uplift the sense of self-worth of all normal people that do things that are special in some intimate, unknowable measure.

<!-- PELICAN_END_SUMMARY -->

But no, the rules of the movie industry say that heroisms should always be accounted for, that the scowl of the lady in the bus (which you don't know and probably never will) has to change in a appreciating smile -- and why do we need to celebrate that? Why somebody like Tom Hanks's character in that movie would ever need strangers to like him? This feels exactly like one of those unwritten rules of the movie industry where the world needs to be shown as fundamentally better (different!) from the real world.

That is admittedly a rather minor point. But for someone like me it stops me dead in the action and makes me realize that the majority of people see the other's recognition as more important than the actual sense of right or wrong that dictates our actions. And what bothers me is that Mr Spielberg is certainly someone who can do whatever he wants with his movies; or maybe not, maybe big budget movies like his need to be carefully vetted from A to Z from producers or who else is paying the bills in order to maximise the profits. Anyway, being this a very little moment in a two hours movie, I would have thought that a famous director like him could have easily avoided the cliche seen in countless other movies of the unknown person that "recognizes" that seemingly ordinary person as someone worth of recognition.

And if you really want to send a message with a movie beautifully crafted and acted like this one, make it simpler and more realistic; that people sometimes do good things and no one ever will know about it, not the stranger on the bus, not your family, not your boss or your country. But the good things will stay with you, and that should be enough. Mr Spielberg has lost a very good possibility to make this statement, and it surprises me that such a guy like him that I think can do whatever the hell he wants, would fall for these little cliches.

The second movie is The Revenant and apart from being this one too a beautiful movie, with extraordinary storytelling (especially considering how the story itself is rather ordinary, as opposed to Birdman for example), what really was intriguing to me was a technical aspect: photography. And I am not here reiterating the point that was immediately striking and recounted in many articles, which is about the use of wideangle lenses and those seemingly long, uninterrupted shots. There were those beautiful, majestic landscapes which are the total opposite of all landscape photography that is in vogue now. Almost monochromatic, mostly shot under overcast skies, no striking natural features like big-funky-shaped mountains or strange looking rock formations; and yet, they were evocative and perfectly communicated the idea of remoteness and rigid temperatures and being "out there" for real.

And what do we see in contemporary photography? Ugly and unnatural color palettes; abused long exposures to show the water flowing; ultrawide angle shots with rocks or leaves in the foreground and El Capitan in the background. All the same shit, everywhere, without an ounce of originality and most importantly without real evocative power; all modern landscape photography seems to me frigid and fake, with no intention of pulling the viewer in the world and let him feel the vastness or the coldness or the sense of being in the landscape.


